# commodityViz

I chose to render the exported goods for each of the United States in the year 2012 in a Scatter plot for multiple reasons. The first, is that a single data point has a quantitative variable and two nominal variables. These nominal variables have large sets of values: their cardinalities are 44 and 50. The quantitative values map to the members of the cartesian product of these two sets, whose cardinality is 2,200. The best way to show both the quantitative value and which nominal values they are connected too was using a heatmap matrix, where the two dimensions encode the two nominal variables and the saturation of the cell at their intersection encodes the quantitative values. Although the quantitatve value would be better understood and its proportion of the overall exports of a certain good or state might be better visualized if it was encoded in cell size, the 2,200 shapes of differing sizes would be much more difficult for the user to comprehend since the majority of them would not fit on the screen. This rendering allows the user to compare the trends and find patterns across the entire data set instead of a subsection. 

Controlling element #1 is the automatic ranking that the chart does when the user clicks a square. The chart then ranks the data from highest to lowest for the coressponding nominal item on the axis currently activated. The switch between the two axes can e made using my second control feature on the footer, buttons, that turn the y or x axis off according to their label. These controls allow the user to not only study the shipping habits of one state but then compare them to that of all of the other states. Can you believe montana ships zero agricultural products? what do they do with all that land? And none of the states ship crude petroleum. Furthermore, the user can line two states side by side by clicking their columns sequentially, making comparison simple. I was trying to add atooltip so the user could get the exact values for a good between two stats but d3 is a jerk. Whatever. The user can then switch the axes and study which states ship the most amount of a single good. Like Washington state exports the most raw lumber, who knew?

Live Viz (gotta love that loading time): http://students.washington.edu/jkinsfat/info474/assign2/commodityViz/

Chart Inspired By (And colors taken from) http://bl.ocks.org/tjdecke/5558084